---
layout: post
title: How to launch of your first Scala application
tags: [ scala, sbt ]
links: [{ name: "Scala", 
          href: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scala_(programming_language)"
        },{
          name: "SBT",
          href: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SBT_(software)"
        },{
          name: "Assembly plugin",
          href: "https://github.com/sbt/sbt-assembly"
        }
       ] 
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 08 Jan 2015

When you start to learn a new language or a new technology you probably don't know yet how to build and launch your first app easily. 

First of all, we need to have Scala installed on our machine:

@$ brew install scala@

We can check it with:

@$ scala@

It'll display the version of the installed JVM too:

bq. 
Welcome to Scala version 2.11.4 (Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM, Java 1.7.0_71).

And we need to have SBT installed also

@$ brew install sbt@

Let's check it with:

@$ sbt about@

bq. 
[info] This is sbt 0.13.7
[info] The current project is built against Scala 2.10.4

The next step is we should declare the *assembly* plugin in our project in the _project/plugins.sbt_ file.

@addSbtPlugin("com.eed3si9n" % "sbt-assembly" % "0.12.0")@  

Afterward, in order to have a standalone runnable file we can start the *assembly* command:

@$ sbt assembly@

bq. 
[info] Updating {file:/ ...
[info] Resolving jline#jline;2.12 ...
[info] Compiling 5 Scala sources to /
[info] Packaging /
[success] Total time: 35 s, completed

We'll get a fat jar file with all dependencies included.
Let's ran it with:

@$ java -jar our_first_scala_app-assembly-0.1.jar@

Have a great day!
